ARROW-16666: [Docs][Release] Update release guide to specify new workflow and feature freeze (#13308)
apache/arrow: docs/source/developers/release.rst

    source dev/release/setup-gpg-agent.sh
    
    # Curate the release
    # The end of the generated report shows the JIRA tickets with wrong version number assigned.
    archery release curate <version>

Creating a Release Candidate
============================

These are the different steps that are required to create a Release Candidate.

For the initial Release Candidate, we will create a maintenance branch from master.

> Follow up Release Candidates will update the maintenance branch cherry-picking

Reviewer: Is `by` missing?

```suggestion
Follow up Release Candidates will update the maintenance branch by cherry-picking
```

specific commits.

We have implemented a Feature Freeze policy between Release Candidates.
This means that, in general, we should only add bug fixes between Release Candidates.
In rare cases, critical features can be added between Release Candidates, if
there is community consensus.

Create or update the corresponding maintenance branch
-----------------------------------------------------

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Initial Release Candidate

      .. code-block::

            # Execute the following from an up to date master branch.

>             # This will create a branch locally called maint-X.Y.Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            # This will create a branch locally called maint-X.Y.Z.
```

>             # X.Y.Z corresponds with the Major, Minor and Patch version number
>             # of the release respectively. As an example 9.0.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            # (for example maint-9.0.0 for the 9.0.0 release)
```

            archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --execute
            # Push the maintenance branch to the remote repository
            git push -u apache maint-X.Y.Z

   .. tab-item:: Follow up Release Candidates

      .. code-block::

            # First run in dry-mode to see which commits that will be cherry-picked.
            # If there are commits that we don't want to get applied ensure the version on
            # JIRA is set to the following release.
            archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --continue
            # Update the maintenance branch with the previous commits
            archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --continue --execute
            # Push the updated maintenance branch to the remote repository
            git push -u apache maint-X.Y.Z

> Create the Release Candidate and release branch from the updated maintenance branch
> -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the release branch and release tag from the updated maintenance branch
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

.. code-block::

    # Create the release branch from the updated maintenance branch.

>     git checkout -b release-X.Y.Z maint-X.Y.Z

Author: I am not entirely sure. I think that working with the maintenance branch as base and with a release candidate branch for the minor changes/changelogs/etc, should be enough in order to do the verification. @kszucs do you think the release branch is necessary at this point? I can't find any script where we are using it specifically.

    # Curate the release
    # The end of the generated report shows the jira tickets with wrong version number assigned.
    archery release curate <version>

Creating a Release Candidate
============================

These are the different steps that are required to create a release candidate.

> The initial Release Candidate branch is merged from master. Follow up Release

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The initial Release Candidate branch is created from master. Follow up Release
```

Candidates will be created from a maintenance branch.

We have implemented a Feature Freeze policy between Release Candidates.
This means that, in general, we will only add fixes between Release Candidates.

> Only specific features, if there is community consensus, will be merged to further Release Candidates.

Reviewer 3: I think this needs rephrasing to make clear that this will only happen in special circumstances so as not to leave an "opening" for noncritical feature additions. Maybe:
```suggestion
In rare cases, critical features can be added between release candidates, if  there is community consensus.
```

Only specific features, if there is community consensus, will be merged to further Release Candidates.

Create or update the corresponding maintenance branches:

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Initial Release Candidate

      .. code-block::

            # From an up to date master branch execute
            archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --execute

   .. tab-item:: Follow up Release Candidates

      .. code-block::

            # First run on dry-mode to see what are the commits that will be cherry-pick.
            # If there are commits that we don't want to get applied ensure the version on
            # JIRA is set to the following release.
            archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --continue
            # Update the maintenance branch with the previous commits
            archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --continue --execute

Create the rest of the Release branches.

.. code-block::

    # Checkout release branch
    # Use master for major releases

>     git checkout -b release-4.0.0 master

Reviewer 3: I don't quite understand this change?

Author: My idea is that as we will always be using the maintenance branch we don't require to branch from master anymore and for a follow up release candidate we want to create the release branch from the maintenance branch instead of master.

Reviewer 3: But where/when is `maint-X.Y.Z` created? e.g. there is no maint-8.0.0

> for a follow up release candidate we want to create the release branch from the maintenance branch instead of master.

👍

Author: The idea is that prior to this you are going to generate the maintenance branch via the command:
```
archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --execute
```
This generates that branch from master on the first release and updates the maintenance branch for following release candidates via:
```
archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --continue --execute
```
If it was not clear I can add a comment specifying that a maintenance branch should be created at this point?

Author: New commit added to make it more clear, let me know what you think: https://github.com/apache/arrow/pull/13308/commits/adf1a4501f4b2afaaad4fb41fc99c6eb348dad25

    # Curate the release

>     # The end of the generated report shows the jira tickets with wrong version number assigned.

Reviewer 2: Nit: capitalization
```suggestion
    # The end of the generated report shows the JIRA tickets with wrong version number assigned.
```

    archery release curate <version>

Creating a Release Candidate
============================

These are the different steps that are required to create a release candidate.

For the initial Release Candidate, we will create a maintenance branch from master.
Follow up Release Candidates will update the maintenance branch cherry-picking
specific commits.

We have implemented a Feature Freeze policy between Release Candidates.

> This means that, in general, we will only add fixes between Release Candidates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means that, in general, we should only add bug fixes between Release Candidates.
```

> In rare cases, critical features can be added between release candidates, if

Reviewer 2: Please use consistent capitalization for "release candidates" / "Release Candidates".

there is community consensus.

> Create or update the corresponding maintenance branches:

Reviewer 2: Why "branches"? Are there several of them?

> Create or update the corresponding maintenance branches:

Reviewer 2: Also make these subsections?

Author: I think this is done with the latest commit now.

.. tab-set::

   .. tab-item:: Initial Release Candidate

      .. code-block::

            # Execute the following from an up to date master branch.

>             # This will create a branch locally called maint-X.Y.Z

Reviewer 2: What is "X.Y.Z" supposed to stand for? It's not clear to me.

Author: I've added a minor comment, let me know what you think:
```
            # Execute the following from an up to date master branch.
            # This will create a branch locally called maint-X.Y.Z
            # X.Y.Z corresponds with the Major, Minor and Patch version number
            # of the release respectively. As an example 9.0.0
```

Reviewer: I like `maint-9` for all 9.Y.Z releases.
I assume that we don't need multiple maintenance branches for the same major version. In other words, we don't release 9.0.1 after we release 9.1.0.

Author: I am not sure about that. We have had discussions in the mailing list about SEMVER and trying to have more releases. I do think being prepared with a versioning naming of Major.Minor.Patch on our maintenance branches that is flexible enough is not a problem and might benefit us in the future in order to achieve these other goals.

            archery release --jira-cache /tmp/jiracache cherry-pick X.Y.Z --execute
            # Push the maintenance branch to the remote repository
            git push -u apache maint-X.Y.Z

   .. tab-item:: Follow up Release Candidates

      .. code-block::

>             # First run on dry-mode to see what are the commits that will be cherry-pick.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            # First run in dry-mode to see which the commits will be cherry-picked.
```

    # after you complete the script:
    #   https://repository.apache.org/#stagingRepositories
    dev/release/06-java-upload.sh <version> <rc-number>

Verify the Release
------------------

.. code-block::

    # Automatically verify the Release Candidate
    #
    # 1. Push the Release Candidate's branch to the fork
    git push --set-upstream origin release-<version>-rc<rc-number>
    # 2. Open a pull request from the Release Candidate's branch to the maintenance branch
    #    https://github.com/apache/arrow/compare/maint-<version>...<fork-github-username>:release-<version>-rc<rc-number>
    # 3. Create a comment for the pull request to trigger the automatized crossbow verification tasks
    #    @github-actions crossbow submit --group verify-rc-source --group verify-rc-binaries --group verify-rc-wheels --param release=<version> --param rc=<rc-number>
    #
    # See https://github.com/apache/arrow/pull/10126 as an example.
    
    # Once the automatic verification has passed merge the Release Candidate's branch to the maintenance branch

>     # may need the --force flag to push the maint-<version> branch to the apache remote for RC1 or later

Reviewer: I think that we don't need `--force` with this work flow.

Reviewer: No more comments from me. I'll merge this.
